you
Ladies and gentlemen, would you please rise to honor America with the US Navy color guard and the US Navy sea chanters?
Okay, keep my open.
Advance the colors.
The US Navy is the only one who has a long history.
Ready? Go!
Oh
Oh, say can you see by the dawn's early light?
What so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming?
Whose first stripes and bright stars to the perilous fight?
For the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming.
And the rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air,
It flew through the night, and our flag was still there.
Oh, say does that star-spangled banner yet wave?
For the land of the free,
And the home of the brave.
Ladies and gentlemen, please be seated.
All right, now let's go with the rocket started.
This is the 3-7 fuel miss-gold.
One flight to the sea.
At 14 CSI, off to the end of the road.
Okay, you're right, now we're the surface, and it's come all the way.
We're here.
The rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air,
The bombs bursting in air,
Before we have a prayer, I'd like to share with you two special experiences that we had with Alan.
Many knew him as a famous astronaut.
Most of you here as a friend, a colleague.
We knew him more as a family man, as a devoted husband of Louise,
And the father of Laura, Julie and Alice.
Our two daughters are the same age as his youngest two.
They have always been the best of friends.
Many times we saw Alan carrying the girls dolls and t-shirts from their house to ours,
And from ours to theirs.
Our girls regarded Alan more as their friends daddy,
And not as a world famous figure.
So when he offered to fly them along with his three to Maine to summer camp,
We were thrilled for their sakes.
We thought, just think what the children can tell their children,
That Alan Shepard had flown them to Maine.
As parents, that was our perspective.
Having been a World War II B-17 pilot, I immediately asked him,
How are you going to manage five rambunctious little girls on the plane?
He replied, it's very simple.
If they get restless, I'll just go up to 10,000 feet.
And they will all go to sleep.
We were at the local airport when they took off.
They did have some engine trouble, so they flew directly to Hobby to get it repaired.
Eventually, they took off for Maine, and route they made other stops to Rethuel.
Hours later, they arrived at Vaughnstable Airport in Massachusetts.
Upon arrival, one of our little girls called me on the telephone, and implored,
Oh, daddy, please, please next time, can we go commercial?
Now on to a more serious remembrance.
After his return from the moon, my wife, gingerly asked him,
Alan, did you ever consider that you might not get back from the moon?
He replied very solemnly, oh yes, we thought about that.
My friends, this is genuine courage and bravery.
This is a tribute to the courage, bravery, and heroism of Alan Shepherd,
and it is a tribute to all of the astronauts.
These are brave men.
I am sure I speak for all Americans.
We are proud of you, and we admire and appreciate your courage and bravery in the space effort.
I could give no more sacred prayer than the following verses from the Bible, songs.
Whether shall I go from thy spirit, or whether shall I flee from thy presence,
if I ascend up into heaven, thou art there.
If I make my bed and hell, behold, thou art there.
If I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea,
even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me.
As a young boy, who was a Sunday school student, Alan Shepherd learned a prayer.
His wife, Louise, wants his friends to hear this prayer as he came to know it.
She stated that this prayer had a profound influence on his life.
This is the prayer by Mary Baker Eddie.
Thy kingdom come.
Let the reign of divine truth, life and love be established in me, and rule out of me all sin,
and may thy word enrich the affections of all mankind and govern them, and from the scriptures.
Simon Peter answered him, Lord, we believe and are sure that thou art that Christ,
the Son of the living God, and this is the promise that he has promised us, even eternal life.
Good afternoon.
Louise, the Shepherd family, ladies and gentlemen.
It's wonderful to look at in that audience and almost recognize every face there.
We are here this afternoon to remember Alan Shepherd as a friend and as a colleague,
one who we all admire and will find impossible to replace.
In 1959, when the United States decided to fly man in space,
the newly chartered NASA needed a number of men to fly their Mercury spacecraft.
The requirements for these aviators and soon to be called astronauts were reasonably straightforward and unambiguous.
A number of us in the space task group had come from the world of airplane flight tests,
and we recognized that we needed experienced test pilots who understood the rigors of testing the unknown
and were accustomed to putting their lives in jeopardy every time they flew.
They had to be prepared to do their job regardless of the threatening circumstances they might find themselves in.
We also wanted them to understand the engineering design required of this new flying machine
and to be able to participate in his development.
Alan Shepherd volunteered to be one of the men we were looking for.
He came to this new challenge because in his mind, space flight was the next step in man's quest to fly higher and faster.
We test pilot, this was his kind of business.
He did not come into the space program looking for glory.
Indeed, many of his peers looked with scorn on what they thought was a step backward in test flying
and refused to consider themselves as test specimens for a highly experimental program with a questionable future.
In fact, if you listen to the so-called medical community who were advising NASA in 1959,
the test pilots who were criticizing Project Mercury were justified in their evaluation.
The great majority of the doctors believed that man's reaction to this new environment of zero gravity and a perfect vacuum
would cause disorientation, nausea, loss of sight, and other dire ailments.
And as a result, it might be totally incapable of doing work, much less conducting the complex and intricate task
we were expecting them to carry out.
Fortunately, Bob Gilruth and those of us who worked for him believed that a qualified test pilot with proper training
could most likely accomplish the same task in space that they had been conducting in high performance airplanes.
We wanted the men who were going to fly to be an integral part of the spacecraft just as they had been in the airplanes they flew.
As the first man flight approached, the competition for being first among the seven astronauts became very intense.
As in any group greater than one, it was difficult to choose who should be selected.
Bob Gilruth, a man who never received the proper credit for being the father of man's space flight, met with the astronauts
and asked them to write a brief essay on who and why they should be chosen to fly the first flight, excluding themselves.
From this interesting and provocative exercise, and with the advice and consent of his staff, he picked Alan Shepherd to fly the first man Mercury Redstone flight.
These were heady times, and now, and already charged, doubled his efforts to train for the 15-minute sub-orbital flight.
Unfortunately, Shepherd's flight had to be preceded by the flight of a chimpanzee.
Although we successfully launched and recovered him, the hot engine of the Redstone caused an early shutdown, which precipitated an escape rocket separation,
suggesting him to 17G and giving gave the false impression that the animal had failed to perform.
The demand of further Redstone testing and a requirement to test a large number of animals on the John's L.S. Infuge postponed Shepherd's flight.
Shepherd was extremely disappointed and agitated by the delay, as was the entire space task group.
The real disappointment came several weeks later when the Russians launched Yuri Gagarin into orbit and recovered him after one revolution.
With added resolve and the permission of the President's Scientific Advisory Committee, the animal tests were canceled, a test flight of the Redstone was completed, and MR-3 was given a green light.
After several launch attempts had been scrubbed because of weather, on Friday, May 5, 1961, Shepherd was again ready to fly.
NASA had decided to allow the media, including television, to cover the launch in real time, putting tremendous pressure on everyone involved.
But this decision turned out to be far wiser than all of us could have imagined.
The launch was scheduled for 7am, but clouds and rain covered the cape.
We decided to press on, have Alan enter the capsule and wait for the weather to clear.
The picture I had on my console of Shepherd, which you just saw, exiting the trailer at the pad,
was search light shining on him and his silver spacesuit is still emblazoned in my mind.
It was one of the most exciting moments of our lives.
We all waited, and finally the weather began to clear and we picked up the count.
As we reached two minus two minus two minutes, the magic point in account in those days, Stan White began giving me Alan's vital signs.
And he reported his heart rate was increasing and near lift off reached 180.
He was not the only one whose adrenaline was flowing.
I looked down to make some notes and suddenly noticed the microphone on my headset was missing.
I was about to have it replaced when I realized it was still there, but I was shaking so hard that it appeared as a blur in my eyes.
We all remembered Shepherd's exclamations during launch, his staccato reporting, and his marvelous description of the earth and the heavens he viewed from his lofty position.
He performed exactly as you would expect the finest test pilot to do, in his entry and recovery were equally spectacular.
The Navy helicopter retrieved Shepherd and his spacecraft, and history was made.
The reaction of the country to this brief sub-overdalflight was incredible, and Shepherd had become the hero he had not set out to be.
The world praised the U.S. for its success, but particularly for the willingness to share it with the rest of the world as it happened.
This day reported was in stark contrast to the Russian secrecy and failure to report their missions until they were successfully completed.
The country celebrated the astronauts' accomplishment, and President Kennedy invited Shepherd and his colleagues to the White House to receive the country's highest honor.
The impression that Shepherd's flight made on the country and the world was not overlooked by the President, and within weeks he had decided to challenge the nation with landing men on the moon and returning them safely to Earth before this decade is out.
Alan Shepherd had not only become the nation's first astronaut, he had inspired his country to set out on one of its greatest adventures.
Alan's contribution to his country is commitment to the space program and his willingness to always go the last mile to show it, what made him so dear to all of us.
I'd like to end with this prayer from the Episcopal Book of Current Prayer.
Almighty God, we remember this day before the thy faithful servant, Alan Shepherd, and we pray thee that having opened to him the gates of larger life,
that will receive him more and more into thy joyful service, that he may win with thee and thy servants everywhere, the eternal victory through Jesus Christ, Alan.
Please, family, guests, friends of ours, all of us here today.
Alan Shepherd was many things. He was a patriot, he was a leader, he was a competitor, a fierce competitor, he was a hero, most importantly to us, he was a close friend.
When we seven were chosen as the first American astronauts, Al stood out, and I had first known Al several years earlier when we were both test pilots at the Naval Air Test Center at Patuxen River, Maryland.
But it wasn't until the Mercury program, I saw firsthand the determination, the toughness, the courage of Alan Shepherd.
I think we have to remember as Chris referred to a moment ago, was the depths of the Cold War, we tend to forget that sometimes.
And all of a sudden, after Sputnik America's technological superiority in this world was under serious question.
We try to put up satellites, we fail.
We had been beaten in the early days of the space race by a country that bragged that American, American now sleeps under a Soviet moon as they Twittered us.
It meant something to us. Many kids of the world were going to Moscow for education instead of through our schools in this country, and nations were being affected by the propaganda that was being put out.
We'd sum it up by saying it was a very, very low time for American self-esteem. The naysayers and the doubters about our naysam were getting very, very serious attention.
But Al brought us back. He brought us back because of his leadership in the Mercury program. He brought us back because he carried the American questing spirit on his shoulders into the heavens.
He brought us back because Al took that challenge from the Soviets, not only as the Patriot he was, Al took that personally.
All seven of us watched some of those early rocket tests, and we watched some unfail and occasionally in very spectacular fashion.
We could spend a couple hours here this afternoon talking about our experiences and watching some of the things down there, and then people saying, you're going to whoop one of those things.
But that didn't deter us, and especially it did not deter Al. Named spacecraft Freedom 7. We were free to name our own spacecraft back in those days. Freedom 7. His view of where this whole program stood in relationship to openness around the world, what we stood for.
In fact, as he sat in Freedom 7 through yet another delay before his historic Mercury mission, he was very anxious to get going, and we heard an anxious to get going Al suggests, why don't you fix your little problem and light this candle.
And he wasn't making light, but he, that one moment eloquently portrays Al as a Al's dedication to getting the program going.
America has lost one of his true adventures. Someone whose entire life was dictated by the American questing spirit.
And Alan and Scott and Gordo and Wally and I have lost more than a friend. We've lost another brother.
The National Aviation Hall of Fame every year has an induction ceremony that traditionally closes with the reading of what is without a doubt the single best known poem among aviators all over the world.
He was written by an American who joined the Royal Canadian Air Force and was killed at the age of 19 flying a Spitfire during the Battle of Britain.
The words have an even more special meaning to us today than they did in 1977 when the name of Alan Shepherd was inscribed in the Aviation Hall of Fame.
The poem is titled High Flight.
Well, I have slipped the surly bonds of earth and danced the skies on laughter-silvered wings.
Sunward I've climbed and joined the tumbling worth of sun-split clouds and done a hundred things you have not dreamed of, wheeled and soared and swung high in the sunlit silence.
Overing there I've chased the shouting wind along and flung my eager craft through footless halls of air. Up, up the long delirious burning blue I've topped the windswept heights with easy grace where never-lark or even eagle flew.
And while with silent lifting mind I've trod the high untressed past sanctity of space, put out my hand and touch the face of God.
Even as we meet here today, Alan is now right now, this very minute, experiencing that ultimate of all times, high flight.
But here we will all miss him very much.
So the weasen the family are thoughts and our prayers with you.
It has been nearly four decades since I first met Al Shepard.
Shortly after that I first came to know him early in our training when I rode in his corvette from Langley Field to John'sville for some early centrifuge training.
By the time we got to John'sville I realized I was in the company of a dedicated naval officer, a unique and capable aviator, a born leader and a serious competitor in anything he decided he wanted to do.
The placard in his corvette on the dashboard saying, specially made for Alan B. Shepard only added to my awe and respect for this multi-talented fellow I never asked and that is why I never found out how he came by that special compensation from general motors.
But I always wondered.
For a long time both Al and I lived with some names that we were not particularly fond of.
His was Bartlett mine is Malcolm.
We fell into the custom after a while of always addressing each other by those names.
In keeping with that custom I will now say my hats off to you Bartlett.
Thank you for all you have done for the Navy, for the space program and for your country.
It is an honor and a privilege to have known you.
Weezer family friends and some military people I might add I would like to recommend that we all think of as rear Alan Bartlett, Shepard, Jr.
U.S. Navy Yankee from New Hampshire.
Naval Academy graduate, Black Shoe, Cogswell in the Pacific, Brown Shoe, Naval Aviator, aircraft carriers, test pilot, astronaut and a very generous man.
When we were brought, I don't think we were really ordered, I think we volunteered to Langley Air Force base.
We suddenly realized we didn't have any more uniforms. They were gone.
We were going to be civilians for an in-on.
Our budget was rather tough because I don't recall I was talking to Joe and my wife just the other day.
I don't recall ever going to work without wearing a uniform.
This is a big transition for us.
We sat in this very humble office, seven of us with Nancy Lo sitting outside guarding the door as our secretary, warning what the heck we're doing here.
The seven of us bonded almost immediately.
We left on different parts of the continent literally to check on engineering drawings and engineering plans, on engineering symposiums, medical tests in addition to the original ones we had, briefings, simulations.
We were kind of busy.
And each Friday we came back and debriefed each other so we knew what was going on.
The only way we could cover the whole ballpark.
With that, we began to realize that each of us were participating in whatever flight we had.
As I watched I saw Alan Shepard stand out.
I made the mistake of voting for him on that period of the thing that I think about it.
As a result I could see Alan was becoming a leader.
We had our Mercury program go on and time came on and Deak Slighten was to fly who was remembered here not too long ago.
Now, they're tough to come back again here, but thinking of Deak, we realized that if he was going to be grounded, we better have him in charge.
We didn't want, excuse me, an admiral coming down to take care of us and be responsible for us.
We wanted one of our own.
After Mercury, Alan was due to fly Germany and was grounded because of Minus Syndrome and near problem.
Growning for almost a decade.
Deak asked, Al, would you help me out and be in charge of the astronaut office?
We had two great leaders.
We've lost two of our great leaders.
We're down to four now.
Lost Gus on the launch pad.
But the brotherhood we had will endure forever.
It's that interesting part of Alan Sherpard that came to light when he got to the moon finally.
And he hit that ball for miles and miles.
My last recollection of Alan hitting a golf ball was on Kauai on the sixth screen of Ocean 9 on the edge.
He drove a ball off the edge into the Pacific Ocean.
He said, that one went miles and miles.
I didn't have to take a mulligan.
We'll remember Alan B.
I was called Skyray by him.
The family, of course, we all think of it.
It's kind of tough to be called Bartlett, isn't it Bartlett?
At least we had a dark in the high flight.
And that's the two children of Grancho and the valon, of course.
The whole family here, I love and feel so very warm.
I'll make it. Playboy out.
Who is his family?
I sort of had a message for Alan in day.
We had a lot of adventures together, Alan.
We were in the first group of six contestants, start out in Washington.
For a whole week of mental exams.
Written exams.
And then we went on to a lot of lace clinic.
That was very interesting.
Because they'd been told that we had as many people as they could out.
So we were the first of the skinny pigs, if you will, to come through.
And it was very interesting.
They weeded a lot of people out.
They were brutal.
But it was real adventure.
Then we went from there to right patterns and air force base,
where we went through the physiological training, where they put us on vibrators,
and they dunked us in ice water, and they roasted us in ovens,
and they sealed us up in soundproof chambers.
And everything they could think of to do to the people with really discurred gym
and see if they could tolerate it.
And out of that, then we had a real adventure in April of 59,
when we were all brought out on the stage like this,
and announced the world who this seven, first seven were.
And boy, there were lots of cameras, lots of reporters.
That was certainly most of us as a really exposure to the news media
and the cameras of the world of public relations.
But we survived that, didn't we, Al?
We got through it.
And we survived the Navy program at school, went through UDT training,
like we went through the other kind of training we'd think of.
We survived that one, and we roasted them to the bottom of the desert together.
Found out we could learn to get along all right in a desert situation.
We survived the jungle as a Panama.
And we survived the research, and really the research and the running
and the engineering that went on the Johnville centrifuge.
It was brutal, but it proved how strong, how capable the human body really is.
We raised many miles in identical car vets.
And I'm sorry, Al, that I never told you that I changed the ratio
and my differential.
And you really weren't any less a driver,
just that I cheated a little on you.
We spent long days and nights getting ready to get MR3 ready to go.
I was going to be the blockhouse communicator.
And we were together on the communication system in the launch.
And I'll never forget there was not a dry eye anywhere in the block house,
and I only launched.
And I had to run around Brown and Kertley just right at my right elbow.
And they were very excited to be able to speak to Al very briefly.
And then you were my capsule communicator on my MR3 fly.
Well, we had lots of good flying, lots of good times together, lots of good tests,
and a lot of things going on.
Now you're up there in that big hangar in the sky, and a lot of good flights.
And it will miss you out.
We will be there for long, so we'll try some of that flying ourselves.
My best all of you, and we'll miss you out.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
It's my privilege, but sad duty to represent the Apollo 14 crew on this occasion.
I know Stu would have wanted to be here, but his wonderful family has come over to be with us for this occasion.
And in thinking of Stu and Alan, I'm reminded of an event that happened as we came up from the lunar surface.
If you remember the tapes, as we came into sight of the command module,
you could hear Stuart's voice come over the radio and say,
Hello down there, fearless one.
What are you doing down there? You seem to have lost a little weight since the last time I saw you.
I'm somewhat sure that last week Stuart might have repeated almost those same words.
I am privileged that Alan shows Stuart and I had a good time with him.
He was a wonderful teammate, colleague, leader, boss.
I remember on the final day of our simulation of the lunar landing before the flight,
when the team had thrown virtually every malfunction they could find at us.
And we successfully got down and it was over.
I turned to him and said, congratulations, boss.
I think we're ready to go.
And he smiled in that innumerable way.
Yeah, I think we are.
I want to pay tribute to him.
What a privilege it was to serve with Alan Shepherd.
And I'm sure that wherever it is that astronauts and explorers go when we depart this realm.
With Alan and Sue, deep concussed Roger Ed, Elliott Charlie, CC, Jack, Jim, and Ron,
pioneering and exploring and doing things that one day we will all be doing together.
Again.
Very well and thanks a lot.
Louise, Shepherd family, distinguished ladies and gentlemen.
I first met Alan Shepherd when he and I were part of the original Mercury Canada group.
Of course, I knew of him through his work he had done at the Naval Air Test Center.
Alan offered me a ride in his Corvette from the hotel to the Dolly Madison House where we were briefed by Project Mercury.
And I thought to myself, this is one naval officer who really has it made.
How much does one of these cost, I asked him?
Any reply if you got to ask, you can't afford to own one.
But Alan was a natural born leader.
The type that people want to emulate and follow.
And sure enough, it wasn't long before a lot of us were driving Corvettes.
And Charles Legacy as a pioneer in our space program is firmly etched in the history books.
He was fiercely competitive and won the position to be the first American in space.
He had the motivation and the perseverance to hang in there during eight years of being grounded before he finally flew on Apollo 14 and landed on the moon in a place called Fraumaro.
When that opportunity was earlier denied me, I cannot think of a more appropriate person to take my place than Alan B. Shepard.
Alan's legacy in space is a thing of the past.
A legacy future generations can reflect on when they want to reminisce about the early heroes of space exploration.
But Alan Shepard left another legacy, one that did not die with him.
A legacy that is alive, growing and prosperous.
He was the driving force behind the establishment by the Mercury Seven astronauts of the Astronaut Scholarship Foundation.
It started out modestly enough in 1986 with a distribution of $1,000 to seven aspiring future engineers and scientists.
But just recently the foundation distributed $8,500 to over 17 students.
Today I would like to introduce to you a young lady, Ms. Lisa Beeson.
She is an early participant of the scholarship program.
Having received three scholarships is now a member of the board of directors of the foundation and who is forever grateful to its chairman, Alan Shepard.
Admiral Alan B. Shepard, Jr. Some of you knew him simply as Alan Shepard.
When I was putting together my thoughts for today, I was somewhat uncertain how I wanted to refer to Alan Shepard.
Because he was simultaneously one of the greatest heroes in American history and also one of the most approachable and friendly people I have known.
I am here to pay tribute to Alan Shepard today because of the tremendous impact that he had on my life and on the lives of the other 105 people who have so far received the Astronaut Scholarship.
Everyone knows about Alan's incredible accomplishments as the first American to fly in space, his walk on the moon, and the other public achievements throughout his career in the space program and in the Navy.
However, since 1984, Alan worked on something which was not as widely known, but which I think will prove to be his greatest legacy.
That is the Astronaut Scholarship Foundation.
Even among people who have achieved great goals, Alan stands out because he continued to contribute to the greatness of America up through the last days of his life.
It was his dedication to the Astronaut Scholarship Foundation which made it into the solid organization that it is today.
He helped it grow from its beginnings of awarding just $7,000 in 1986.
To today, we award over $144,000 annually in the form of 17 scholarships that go to some of the top science and engineering students in the nation.
He never rested on his past accomplishments.
I was always impressed with the amount of time effort and caring that he put into the Scholarship Foundation.
He viewed it as his way, along with the other astronauts, of continuing to strengthen America's position and capabilities in science and engineering.
And it worked.
The Scholarship winners receive not only a monetary award, all of the current recipients and the alumni receive an annual invitation to meet astronauts from the Mercury, Gemini, Apollo, Skylab and Space Shuttle programs, and to meet each other.
It is through these annual meetings that a strong network of scientists and engineers is being formed.
Individually and together, they are making advances on many of today's frontiers in science and technology.
It is also at these annual meetings where so many of the Astronaut Scholars have been inspired by Alan Shepherd.
It was obvious how much he cared about the Scholarship winners when he met with them.
We were all so thrilled to talk to him, and I loved the way he took a genuine interest in the lives of the students and alumni.
This group of young scientists and engineers is lucky to have met him.
I would not have achieved the success I've experienced today without Alan's dedication to this Scholarship program.
The Scholarship was the most significant source of funding for my college education.
And then after graduation, when I started volunteering with the Foundation, it was the support and encouragement of Alan and the other astronauts,
which gave me the confidence needed to advance quickly in my career and engineering at Westinghouse.
Without that positive feedback, I honestly believe I would not be in the position I am today.
It's difficult to describe the impact that he made.
Then during the last eight years, as I came to know Alan, and serving with him on the Board of Directors of the Scholarship Foundation for the past couple of years,
he always made me feel like I could do anything beyond my wildest dreams.
All of the astronauts' scholars will be forever grateful to Alan Shepard for everything that he did for us.
These simple words can't express the difference he made.
To Louise and the entire Shepard family, I think you have a wonderful guardian angel watching over you now.
And I think I've now discovered the answer to the uncertainty that I posed before about what's the best way to refer to Alan Shepard.
I think I'll just call him my friend.
Louise, Shepard family, and all the friends of Alan Shepard here today.
Before I make my personal remarks, I'd like to read you a letter from the President.
Dear Mrs. Shepard, Florey and I would deeply sadden to learn of your husband's death and our hearts go out to you.
Alan Shepard was a true hero, courage, determination, an irrepressible sense of humor.
He blazed the trail for our nation into the unknown and sparked the dreams of a generation.
As the first American in space in one of only 12 to walk on the moon, he made an enormous contributions to our space program and expanded the reach of human knowledge.
I hope you will take comfort in knowing that your husband holds a special place not only in our nation's history, but also in the hearts of his fellow Americans.
His death is a great loss for us all.
We are keeping you and your family in our thoughts and prayers, sincerely, Bill Clinton.
I know it can be done, that it's important for it to be done, and I want to do it.
These simple but poignant words were written in Life Magazine in 1959.
The author captured NASA's mind, body, and soul. The author was NASA's mind, body, and soul, Alan Shepard.
Alan did to dream. He believed in his heart that the NASA family had the talent, courage, and focus to do what others said we in America couldn't do.
And he wanted to be first.
He liked the other astronauts of Mercury 7 wanted to lead the way.
But not just in the early days, everyone knows about Alan Shepard's historic ride on Freedom 7 and his golf shot during Apollo 14.
But he did so much more. He was a fighter who always fought for our nation and its space program. He always fought for the future.
I remember one instance in 1993 when the space program was in big trouble in the Congress.
Alan always the competitor went to work. He wrote editorials and made phone calls on the upcoming vote on the nation's space program.
John Glenn can tell you that members of Congress get a lot of phone calls from a lot of important people.
But when Alan Shepard was on the line, you always picked up the phone.
Many people predicted a resounding loss and many people predicted and then the space exploration for decades to come.
America won its space program by a single vote that year. Ever since the margin of victory has increased and ever since the space program has gotten stronger.
We win in large part because Alan Shepard knew it could be done that it was important that it be done and he wanted to do it.
Alan was not only a fighter but a visionary. Alan told me on many occasions about his vision for Ma's exploration. His eyes would light up.
No surprise. He personally wanted to go and he wanted to be first.
To tell you today Alan, America will go to Ma's.
When we do it, it will be because we like you knew it could be done that it was important that it be done and that we wanted to do it.
That's the way Alan thought he knew no other way and now NASA thinks the same way.
Alan Shepard was unmind. Before the Mercury 7, when named, not too many people really knew about our space program in America or the world.
NASA was around but we're really a bunch of nerdy engineers and scientists.
Talented and hardworking nerds nonetheless.
But then Alan Shepard and the Mercury 7 came along. Their intense determined and willing to risk their lives to open the space frontier for our country.
They gave America's space program a real face and they gave our nation what all nations and what all people need, heroes.
Genuine, bona fide, heroes. The Mercury 7 was the beginning and Alan was the first.
At a time when our nation's confidence was down, he had the courage to climb on top that not completely tested redstone missile and opened the space frontier.
He was our mind and our body.
That first trip to space lasted only 15 minutes but the space Alan Shepard occupies in our history and our nation's consciousness and our hearts will last forever.
After all, it's a very high compliment when someone wants to grow up to be like you.
Literally millions of children wanted to grow up like Alan Shepard.
Older kids like me still do.
Because when he lifted off, he lifted us spirits and he inspired us to always explore the unknown and discover what's possible.
To always think of the future, to always do up part.
Alan was our soul.
The poet Henry Wadsworth Longfellow once wrote,
where a star quenched on high for ages would its light still traveling downward from the sky shine on our mortal sight.
So when a great man dies for years behind his kin, the light he leaves behind him lies upon the paths of men.
Alan Shepard lived to travel towards stars quenched on high.
Today he is a star quenched on high and his spirit shines on.
It shines on Louise and his family.
It shines on America.
And it shines on a space program that whether the moon Mars will be on promises to live by the words,
I know it can be done that it's important for it to be done and I want to do it.
Alan Shepard, a brilliant star in the heavens will forever shine on us, NASA's mind, body and soul.
Oh Danny Boy, the pipes, the pipes are calling, from glen to glen and down the mountain side.
The summer's gone and all the roses falling.
It's you, it's you, must go and I must abide.
But come me back when summers in the meadow or all the valleys hushed and white with snow.
It's I'll be here in sunshine or in shadow.
Oh Danny Boy, oh Danny Boy, I love you so.
But when you come and all the flowers are dying,
if I am dead as dead I will maybe.
You'll come and find the place where I am lying and kneel and say and obey there for me.
And I shall hear those softy tread above me and all my grave will warmer, sweeter be.
For ye shall bend and tell me that you love me.
And I will sleep in peace until you come to me.
And I shall be here in sunshine or in shadow.
Legion of fathers strong to save, who's under fight the restless wave, who gives the mighty ocean deep,
It's all the points that live in this kingdom,
O hero's when we cry to thee,
For those in peril on the sea.
It's all the points that live in this kingdom,
O hero's when we cry to thee,
For those in peril on the sea.
And be the planet and the sun,
There are a point that all is wrong.
O hero's when we seek thy grace,
For those who saw throughout us is.
Amen.
Retire the colors.
We knew him, of course, as a husband, a father and a friend, but Ellen was much more than
that.
He has been is and always will be a part of our achievements and accomplishments in
space.
He's been us with us each step of the way.
There are those that would say that our colleague is not with us today.
That is not true.
She'll bear with me.
I would like to read you the words that were written by one of the individuals that we
commemorate with trees, a tree and a scroll of trees.
These words that he wrote, I think apply very well today.
Do not stand at my grave and wait for me.
I am not there.
I do not sleep.
I am a thousand winds at blow.
I am the diamond glint on fallen snow.
I am the scent of ripened grain.
I am the stars at shine at night.
I am the summer sunshine bright.
So do not stand at my grave and cry.
I am not there, or I did not die.
Ellen Shepherd has been always will be a part of each step of the way that we take in
space.
And I got blessed, Ellen, and all his colleagues that we have commemorated here in this
grow with trees.
I glad best God bless all of you and Louise, from you and your family, for all of you that
all have come today.
Now Louise, if you will join me, we will go ahead and that.
Now if you will please join me for a moment of silent prayer.
I am the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will be the one who will
he was profitable!
That concludes this ceremony.
Thank you all very much for coming.